Module 1

Hands-on activities
Detecting and responding to attacks
Monitoring and protecting networks
Investigating incidents
Writing code to automate tasks

Program overview
Core security concepts
Security domains
Network security
Computing basics (Linux & SQL)
Assets, threats, and vulnerabilities

Incident detection and response
Python
Find and apply for jobs

Course 1 overview
Be committed
Introduction to cybersecurity
Definitions
Cybersecurity (or security): The practice of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information by protecting networks, devices, people, and data from unauthorized access or criminal exploitation.

Threat actor: Any person or group who presents a security risk.

Benefits of security
Protects against external and internal threats
Meets regulatory compliance
Maintains and improves business productivity
Reduces expenses
Maintains brand trust
Common job titles
Security analyst or specialist
Cybersecurity analyst or specialist
Security operations center (SOC) analyst
Information security analyst

Security analyst responsibilities
Protecting computer and network systems
Installing prevention software
Conducting periodic security audits

Operations: Responding to detections and doing investigations
Projects: Working with other teams to build new detections or improve the current detections

“A playbook is a list of how to go through a certain detection, and what the analyst needs to look at in order to investigate those incidents.”

Common cybersecurity terminology
Compliance is the process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations and enables organizations to avoid fines and security breaches.

Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy.

Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. They are used with security frameworks to establish a strong security posture.

Security posture is an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change. A strong security posture leads to lower risk for the organization.

A threat actor, or malicious attacker, is any person or group who presents a security risk. This risk can relate to computers, applications, networks, and data.

An internal threat can be a current or former employee, an external vendor, or a trusted partner who poses a security risk. At times, an internal threat is accidental. For example, an employee who accidentally clicks on a malicious email link would be considered an accidental threat. Other times, the internal threat actor intentionally engages in risky activities, such as unauthorized data access.

Network security is the practice of keeping an organization’s network infrastructure secure from unauthorized access. This includes data, services, systems, and devices that are stored in an organization’s network.

Cloud security is the process of ensuring that assets stored in the cloud are properly configured, or set up correctly, and access to those assets is limited to authorized users. The cloud is a network made up of a collection of servers or computers that store resources and data in remote physical locations known as data centers that can be accessed via the internet. Cloud security is a growing subfield of cybersecurity that specifically focuses on the protection of data, applications, and infrastructure in the cloud.

Programming is a process that can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks. These tasks can include:
Automation of repetitive tasks (e.g., searching a list of malicious domains)
Reviewing web traffic
Alerting suspicious activity

Test your knowledge: Introduction to cybersecurity
Core skills for cybersecurity professionals
Security analyst transferable skills
Communication
Collaboration
Analysis
Problem-solving

Security analyst technical skills
Programming languages
Security information and event management (SIEM) tools
Data analysis

“Someone without a technical background can 100% be successful in cybersecurity.”

Personally identifiable information (PII): Any information used to infer an individual’s identity.

Sensitive personally identifiable information (SPII): A specific type of PII that falls under stricter handling guidelines.
Test your knowledge: Core skills for cybersecurity professionals
Review: Welcome to the exciting world of cybersecurity
What we covered
Defined security
Job Responsibilities
Core skills
Value of security

Glossary terms from Module 1
Cybersecurity (or security): The practice of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information by protecting networks, devices, people, and data from unauthorized access or criminal exploitation.


Cloud security: The process of ensuring that assets stored in the cloud are properly configured and access to those assets is limited to authorized users.


Internal threat: A current or former employee, external vendor, or trusted partner who poses a security risk.


Network security: The practice of keeping an organization's network infrastructure secure from unauthorized access.


Personally identifiable information (PII): Any information used to infer an individual’s identity.


Security posture: An organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change.


Sensitive personally identifiable information (SPII): A specific type of PII that falls under stricter handling guidelines.


Technical skills: Skills that require knowledge of specific tools, procedures, and policies.


Threat: Any circumstance or event that can negatively impact assets.
Threat actor: Any person or group who presents a security risk.
Transferable skills: Skills from other areas that can apply to different careers.
